1. Go to a command prompt
2. Type in the command `jdc-utils init` and press enter to get a set of questions. To keep the defaults, leave blank and press enter.
3. Answer the set of questions. Below is an example of the prompt (bolded) and answer (italics)

    **Enter your desired path to version control history (ie the id and date shift mappings)
    :** `mypath\tosharednetworkdrive\tohistory`

    **Enter the directory that contains (or will contain) the core measure data files.
    Leave blank (press return) for the default tmp/local. And then copy files here
    (should contain one file for each type of schema/data dictionary).
    [tmp/local]:** `mypath\toproject\data`

    **Enter the path to your generated id file (This may be something like ids/submitter_ids.txt or ids/jdc_person_ids.txt
    and will be generated by the MAARC to ensure no overlap between hubs):
    [data_mgmt/id_store/jdc_person_ids.txt]:** `<left blank>`

    **Enter the name of your participant id column below: (This may be PID, record_id, etc
    that your hubs use for individual participants)
    :** `SUBJID`

    **Enter all date column names in any of your core measure files such as visit_dt.
    If multiple date columns, separate with a space. If you're submitting
    a package without a date column (eg a baseline file), you can either leave blank
    or avoid work later and add future dateset (eg timepoints) date columns.
    :** `VISITDT`

    Now your have your config.yaml that can be used with running jdc utility tools!